In React, state variables are essential because they allow you to manage and control dynamic data within your components. Let's break down why state variables are needed:

1. React's Re-rendering Mechanism
React components are designed to re-render (update the UI) when their state changes. If a component's data changes and this data is stored in a state variable, React knows to re-render that component and reflect the changes in the UI.

Without state, React wouldn’t know when to update the UI, leading to a static, unresponsive app.

For example:

js
Copy code
const [count, setCount] = useState(0);
In this case, count is the state variable, and whenever setCount is called (e.g., on a button click), React re-renders the component to show the updated value of count.

2. Keeping Track of Dynamic Data
State variables are used to store dynamic data that changes over time, such as:

Form inputs: Like in your example, when the user types something in the input field, we use the state (searchTxt) to keep track of what they type and update the UI accordingly.
User interactions: Buttons, dropdowns, and other interactive elements need state to track their current state (e.g., active/inactive, open/closed).
Asynchronous data: When fetching data from an API (e.g., search results or user details), the results are stored in state to display them in the UI after the fetch is complete.
3. React’s One-Way Data Binding
React uses one-way data binding, meaning the flow of data is from the component’s state (or props) to the UI. Unlike traditional DOM manipulation, where changes can directly modify the HTML elements, React doesn't let you directly change the UI without going through its state system.

This is why in your example, just typing into the input field won't update its value unless it's connected to a state variable (searchTxt). React requires that you maintain the "source of truth" (the value) in the state and then reflect it in the UI.

4. State vs Local Variables
While you can use local variables in React components like this:

js
Copy code
let searchInput = "";
Local variables won't trigger a re-render when changed. React does not monitor changes to regular variables, so the UI will remain unchanged even if you modify searchInput.

Example:

js
Copy code
let searchInput = "";
<input type="text" value={searchInput} onChange={(e) => { searchInput = e.target.value; }} />
In this case, changing searchInput won’t update the displayed input field because React doesn’t re-render the component when searchInput changes. This is why state variables are necessary—they notify React when to re-render.
5. Managing Component State Over Time
State allows components to remember data or changes even after multiple interactions. Without state, any changes to data would be lost on re-render, and the component would reset to its original state.

Summary
We need state variables because:

They trigger re-renders when data changes, ensuring the UI stays in sync with the current data.
They store dynamic data that can change over time, like user input or fetched API data.
They enable React’s one-way data binding, making the flow of data predictable and controlled.
Local variables don’t persist or cause re-renders, making state essential for maintaining dynamic behavior in components.
In short, state is how React manages and controls the dynamic nature of your app’s UI, ensuring the data and UI are always synchronized.